7th Rank
in Indian 
Pharma Market
Lupin Brands 
Ranks in the Top 
300 Brands
10%
Five-Year 
CAGR
Lupin’s performance in the Indian pharmaceutical 
market has consistently been on an upward trajectory, 
with its India business outperforming the market. This 
success can be attributed to our strategic expansion 
into chronic and fast-growing therapies, leading to 
revenues of INR 73,729 Mn, accounting for 34% of Lupin’s 
total revenue. The company’s focus on delivering high-
quality and affordable drugs has established it as a 
preferred partner for medical practitioners in India. Strong 
customer engagement has also been a significant 
factor in strengthening its presence, with Lupin being 
ranked seventh in the Indian Pharmaceutical Market. In 
FY24, Lupin’s branded generics sales increased by 9.6%, 
achieving a five-year CAGR of 10.4%, surpassing the 
market’s growth rate of 9.9%. Consequently, our market 
share increased to 3.4% in FY24.
Lupin’s India Region Formulations business primarily 
focuses on the chronic segment, contributing 59.8% of its 
total revenue, with Lupin holding the fifth position in the 
industry. The top five therapy areas in India - Cardiology, 
anti-diabetes, Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, and anti-
infective, collectively account for 73.6% of Lupin’s sales. 
Lupin is a leader in the anti-TB segment and ranks second 
in the Respiratory segment. The Cardiology and anti-
diabetes segments generate approximately 
INR 16,000 Mn and INR 15,000 Mn, respectively, and Lupin 
ranks third in both these growing areas. The Respiratory 
therapy segment has surpassed INR 10,000 Mn, and the 
Gastro+Hepato therapy segment has moved 
upto INR 7,000 Mn. 
In the Respiratory segment, we launched the world’s 
first Fixed Dose Triple Combination drug, Vilfuro-G, for 
managing Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, 
a leading cause of death and disability. Approved as 
a Dry Powder Inhaler by the Drug Controller General of 
India, this innovative therapy brings hope to over 37 Mn 
COPD patients in India. This milestone underscores our 
commitment to expanding our respiratory portfolio and 
providing essential healthcare solutions to 
transform lives. 
80,000
70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
39,675
43,506
49,324
54,531
56,651
65,241
69,668
73,729 
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
India
India Formulation Sales(in INR Mn)*
*Source: IQVIA Report
LUPIN LIMITED  |  Integrated Report 2023-2024
34


In the anti-diabetes segment, Lupin experienced a 
steady growth rate of 5.1%, while the Cardiology segment 
achieved a growth rate of 13.4%, outperforming the 
market growth rate of 10.0%. In the Respiratory segment 
too, Lupin’s growth rate of 13.8% was significantly higher 
than the market growth rate of 2.7%. 
Lupin’s unwavering commitment to fostering more 
robust connections with medical practitioners and 
driving better patient outcomes is evident through its 
proactive initiatives. The company has also constantly 
focused on curating unique scientific platforms that 
facilitate collaboration and partnerships with leading 
universities worldwide to enhance the expertise of 
doctors.
By consistently aligning its business strategies with 
foresight on future market trends and focusing strongly 
on innovation, Lupin continues to reinforce its position as 
a leading player in the Indian pharmaceutical market. 
Our Brands in the Top 300 Brands Category of the IPM
Gluconorm-G
Huminsulin
Rablet-D
Ivabrad
Budamate
Therapy-wise Market Share
Market Share
Therapy
Rank
Anti-TB
1
Anti-Diabetic
3
Cardiology
3
Respiratory
2
Gynecology
9
Neuro/CNS
6
Gastrointestinal
10
60.7% (2.0%)
7.8% (-0.4%)
6.1% (-0.1%)
6.1% (0.3%)
3.7% (0%)
2.7% (-0.1%)
2.8% (0%)
Cardiac 24%
Others 5%
Anti-Diabetic 22%
Respiratory 14%
Gastro Intestinal 7%
Anti-Infectives 6%
Gynaec 6%
Neuro/CNS 4%
Anti-TB 4%
Pain/Analgesics 3%
Vitamins/Minerals/
Nutrients 5%
Corporate Overview    Statutory Reports    Financial Statements
35


NovaShakti
NovaShakti empowers women against heart disease through 
awareness, diagnosis, and care, engaging over 50,000 patients 
and 7,000 healthcare professionals. Through an association 
with Olympian MC Mary Kom, NovaShakti promotes heart health 
through educational screening. A strong social media presence has 
helped in reaching out to a large segment of women and creating 
awareness.
JEET
Jeet is a reward-based Patient support Program that improves 
heart health through Awareness, Adherence, and Assistance. It 
encourages healthy habits through medication reminders and 
health quizzes. Jeet, recommended by healthcare practitioners, 
has empowered a number of patients and practitioners and will 
continue to focus on reaching out to many more.
Joint Airways Initiative
JAI is India’s first digital asthma educator platform, aiding nearly 38 
Mn asthma patients with the right way to use inhalers. Over 12,000 
patients have enrolled in the last year.
Humrahi
Humrahi is a leading patient support program for diabetes 
management, offering services in 12 languages, including a chatbot, 
tracking tools, counseling, and complimentary tests. Humrahi 
onboarded over 11, 862 patients in the last year, who were supported 
through educational camps and screenings.
Say Yes to Life
SAARTHI is a support program for mental health professionals and 
patients, available in multiple regional languages. The platfrom  
improves treatment outcomes and offers coping strategies for 
mental health issues such as anxiety and stress, enabling open 
discussions with psychiatrists.
AI Screening for Breast Cancer
Niramai’s Thermalytix™ uses AI for early breast cancer detection, 
significantly improving accuracy over traditional methods. Lupin 
has partnered with Niramai and conducted over 90 screening 
camps in the past year.
Prothsahan 
Prothsahan  promotes breast cancer awareness through 
educational initiatives and partnerships with public figures and 
medical experts. Interactive sessions with various sections of the 
community have been able to help with education on symptoms 
and early detection.
Patient Support Programs
LUPIN LIMITED  |  Integrated Report 2023-2024
36


Leveraging Digital
In its efforts to drive positive patient health outcomes 
globally, Lupin has been at the forefront of leveraging 
innovative digital strategies to enhance customer 
engagement. Multichannel initiatives, such as 
Lupin Konnect and DigiEngage, enable seamless 
interaction with our core doctors through digital and 
telecommunication channels, in addition to traditional 
face-to-face engagements. Through evidence-based 
practices and clinical guidelines, doctors have access to 
updates on therapeutic breakthroughs and treatment 
methods, helping them deliver optimal patient care to 
improve lives.
Lupin Konnect plays a vital role in enhancing brand 
awareness among untapped General Practitioners. 
Through our omni-channel engagements, GPs are 
constantly kept abreast of the latest scientific updates, 
specifically tailored to the core Lupin brands. This targeted 
outreach allows us to build stronger relationships with 
them and improve brand recall.
Furthermore, we have implemented SmartRep, which is 
specifically designed for our field force and serves as a 
comprehensive analytics platform to obtain actionable 
insights. This platform is fully operational across all 
divisions within India Region Formulations, seamlessly 
integrating various resources such as sales performance 
metrics, coaching modules, a knowledge hub, chemist 
data, and more. This seamless integration empowers our 
teams with the necessary tools to provide exceptional 
service and support to healthcare professionals. 
Currently, our adoption rate stands at an impressive 
97%, highlighting the effectiveness of this platform in 
enhancing our field force’s capabilities. Going forward, we 
will enhance our efforts through AI and Machine Learning 
based insight programs, to further support our field force. 
Lupin Gurukul is a centralized repository for brand plans 
and marketing collateral, providing easy access and 
reference for our team members. This platform enhances 
efficiencies, reduces approval time and enables team 
members to make informed decisions.
Additionally, we have developed Anya, an AI-powered 
chatbot that delivers medically verified responses 
and provides valuable insights. Anya is available in 6 
languages and covers a wide range of therapy areas, 
including Cardiology, Diabetes, Respiratory, Dermatology, 
Tuberculosis, Urology, Orthopaedics, and more. With 
over 32 lakh queries successfully addressed, Anya has 
assisted over 5 lakh+ users with not just text responses but 
infographics as well. 
Our dedication to digital engagement is exemplified by 
our active presence on social media platforms to connect 
with our audience for positive outcomes. Lupin India has 
witnessed a remarkable 16% increase in followers, and 
the Shaping Health platform has seen a notable 10% rise 
compared to the previous year.
As we continue to grow our online community, we are 
committed to delivering relevant and informative content 
that resonates with our followers and reinforces our 
position as a leader in the digital space.
Corporate Overview    Statutory Reports    Financial Statements
37


LupinLife
LupinLife Consumer Healthcare, our OTC business, 
has achieved remarkable growth since its inception 
in 2017, expanding into multiple categories, including 
gastro, health supplements, women’s health, and pain 
management. With a 5-year CAGR outpacing the OTC 
category, our flagship brand, Softovac®, leads the bulk 
laxative segment with a 44% market share. Following its 
transition to a consumer healthcare brand, Aptivate® has 
carved a niche in child healthcare, demonstrating strong 
performance. We run innovative engagement programs 
such as the Aptivate Achhi Bhook Quiz and Aptivate Run. 
Strategic brands such as Vimpro and Vovilup strengthen 
our portfolio, which is supported by an agile retail network 
and digital marketing strategies. LupinLife continues to 
grow at 2x the OTC category, achieving an 18% CAGR 
since FY20, reflecting our commitment to consumer 
relevance and operational excellence, aided by a robust 
retail network, digital marketing strategies, and sales force 
automation.
770
988
1155
1261
1482
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
5 year CAGR 18%
Sales in Mn
LUPIN LIMITED  |  Integrated Report 2023-2024
38


Lupin Diagnostics Limited
Since commencing operations in 2021, Lupin Diagnostics 
has established 38 processing labs across West, East, and 
South India. By 31 March 2024, we surpassed our revenue 
of INR 600 Mn, serving over 1.2 million patients. Recognizing 
that 70% of treatment decisions in India are based on 
diagnostic tests, we ensure accuracy through stringent 
quality control and benchmarking against international 
standards. Over 50% of our labs are NABL accredited, one 
of the highest in the industry, with a goal to achieve 100% 
by FY25.
We are expanding in West and East India, focusing on tier 
3 and tier 4 cities, and have broadened our portfolio to 
include oncology, neurology, and genomics. Our network 
of 750 collection centres support this growth. To maintain 
sample integrity, we employ over 100 field executives for 
temperature-controlled transportation. We also offer 
value-added services such as dynamic smart reports, 
health monitoring tips, and trend analysis for chronic 
disease management, enhancing patient care and 
treatment outcomes.
Lupin Digital Health
In FY23, Lupin launched Lupin Digital Health (LDH), marking 
its foray into the burgeoning field of Digital Therapeutics 
(DTx). LDH introduced Lyfe™, India’s first evidence-
based remote cardiac rehabilitation program with 
Coronary Artery Disease and Acute Coronary Syndrome 
patients, aimed at reducing heart attack risks and 
improving patients’ quality of life. The program features a 
multidisciplinary team offering comprehensive care.
In FY24, we expanded our offerings with the launch of 
Lyfe HF, catering specifically to patients dealing with 
heart failure. Over the past year, thousands of patients 
across 200-plus cities and towns have benefited from 
our Lyfe programs. We secured an exclusive collaboration 
with the American College of Cardiology and obtained 
ISO 27001:2022 certification, along with Central Drugs 
Standard Control Organization approval for our platform 
as a Class C Software as a Medical Device.
Looking ahead to FY25, we plan to launch a product 
targeting early stage heart disease risk factors, 
emphasizing prevention through lifestyle modifications. 
Lupin Digital Health is committed to leveraging digital 
innovations to transform healthcare in India.
Corporate Overview    Statutory Reports    Financial Statements
39


Atharv Ability
Atharv Ability, Lupin’s first Neurological Rehabilitation 
Center, serves as a cutting-edge outpatient facility for 
both adults and children, and addresses the crucial need 
for neurorehabilitation in India. Research highlights that 
multidisciplinary rehabilitation can enhance functional 
recovery by 30-40% and improve the quality of life for 
patients. The center specializes in treating post-stroke, 
traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, and various other 
neurological conditions, including Parkinson’s, cerebral 
palsy, and multiple sclerosis.
Offering a wide range of treatments under one roof, 
Atharv Ability’s services include neuro physiotherapy, 
advanced robotics therapy, speech and language 
therapy, occupational therapy, cognitive therapy, aqua 
therapy, pain management, spine rehabilitation, and 
pediatric neurological rehabilitation. In FY24, Atharv Ability 
treated over 2,400 patients and conducted nearly 30,000 
treatment sessions, including 10,000+ physiotherapy 
sessions, 2,200+ robotics therapy sessions, and 1,800 aqua 
therapy sessions. 
Since its launch, Atharv Ability has meaningfully 
touched the lives of over 5,000 patients, exemplifying 
our commitment to enhancing the lives of those with 
neurological disabilities, ensuring they regain their abilities 
and reintegrate into society. 
LUPIN LIMITED  |  Integrated Report 2023-2024
40


Outlook
Lupin’s India business continues to move forward 
and sharpen its focus on chronic and high-growth 
therapy areas, leveraging its strong market 
position and expanding its portfolio of high-quality, 
affordable drugs. By continuing to foster strong 
relationships with doctors, patients, distribution 
channels and consumers, and leveraging its 
digital platforms, Lupin aims to enhance its 
customer engagement and support.
Our digital initiatives will be further enhanced with 
the integration of advanced technologies such 
as AI and machine learning to provide actionable 
insights and optimize performance. Additionally, 
we will continue to expand our digital marketing 
efforts to strengthen our brand presence and 
reach a broader audience. Our commitment 
to innovation and excellence will ensure that 
Lupin remains at the forefront, driving positive 
health outcomes and delivering value to our 
stakeholders.
Corporate Overview    Statutory Reports    Financial Statements
41


